1.Define Artificial Intelligence (AI) and provide examples of its applications.
Ans:-Artificial Intelligence (AI) refers to the simulation of human intelligence in machines, allowing them to perform tasks that typically require human intelligence, such as learning, problem-solving, and decision-making. AI encompasses various subfields like machine learning, natural language processing, computer vision, and robotics.
Examples of AI applications include:
1. Virtual Assistants:Virtual assistants like Siri, Google Assistant, and Alexa use natural language processing to understand and respond to user queries.
2. Recommendation Systems:Platforms like Netflix and Amazon use AI to analyze user preferences and recommend movies, shows, or products.
3. Autonomous Vehicles: AI powers self-driving cars to perceive their environment, make decisions, and navigate safely.
4. Healthcare:AI is used in medical imaging for diagnosis, drug discovery, personalized treatment plans, and remote patient monitoring.
2.Differentiate between supervised and unsupervised learning techniques in ML.
Ans:-Supervised and unsupervised learning are two fundamental approaches in machine learning:
1. Supervised Learning:
   - In supervised learning, the algorithm is trained on a labeled dataset, where each input is paired with the corresponding output.
   - The goal is to learn a mapping from inputs to outputs, given examples of input-output pairs.
   - During training, the algorithm adjusts its parameters to minimize the difference between predicted outputs and actual outputs.
   - Example algorithms: Support Vector Machines (SVM), Decision Trees, Neural Networks.
2. Unsupervised Learning:
   - In unsupervised learning, the algorithm is given an unlabeled dataset and must find patterns or structures in the data on its own.
   - There are no predefined outputs to learn from; instead, the algorithm explores the data to discover hidden relationships or clusters.
   - Unsupervised learning is used for tasks such as clustering (grouping similar data points), dimensionality reduction (compressing data while preserving important information), and anomaly detection (identifying unusual patterns).
  - Example algorithms: K-means clustering, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Autoencoders.
3.What is Python? Discuss its main features and advantages.
Ans:-Python is a high-level programming language known for its simplicity, versatility, and readability. Here are its main features and advantages:
1. Simplicity: Python emphasizes readability and simplicity, making it easy to learn and understand, even for beginners. Its syntax is clear and concise, resembling natural language, which reduces the cost of program maintenance and development.
2. Versatility: Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including procedural, object-oriented, and functional programming. It offers a vast standard library with modules for various tasks, such as web development, data analysis, scientific computing, machine learning, and more.
3. Interpreted and Interactive: Python is an interpreted language, meaning that code is executed line by line, which allows for rapid development and debugging. It also provides an interactive mode, where commands can be entered and executed interactively, making it great for experimentation and learning.
4. Cross-platform: Python is platform-independent, meaning it runs on various operating systems such as Windows, macOS, and Linux. This ensures code portability and flexibility, allowing developers to write once and deploy anywhere.
5. Large Community and Ecosystem: Python has a large and active community of developers worldwide, contributing to its extensive ecosystem of libraries, frameworks, and tools. This vast ecosystem accelerates development and provides solutions for almost any programming task. 
4.What are the advantages of using Python as a programming language for AI and ML?
Ans:-Ease of Use: Python's simple and readable syntax makes it easy to prototype, experiment, and develop AI and ML models.
Extensive Libraries: Python has a rich ecosystem of libraries and frameworks specifically tailored for AI and ML tasks. Libraries like TensorFlow, PyTorch, and scikit-learn provide efficient implementations of various machine learning algorithms, neural network architectures, and tools for data preprocessing and evaluation.
Flexibility: Python's flexibility allows developers to seamlessly integrate AI and ML models into existing software systems or frameworks. 
5.Discuss the importance of indentation in Python code.
Ans;-Indentation plays a crucial role in Python code as it is used to define the structure and scope of blocks of code. Unlike many other programming languages that use braces or keywords to denote blocks, Python uses indentation to indicate where blocks of code begin and end.
The importance of indentation in Python can be summarized as follows:
1. Readability:Indentation enhances the readability of Python code by visually indicating the structure of the code. Consistent indentation makes it easier for developers to understand the flow of control and the hierarchy of nested blocks.
2. Enforcement of Structure:In Python, indentation is not just a matter of style; it is enforced by the interpreter. Incorrect indentation can lead to syntax errors or logical errors in the code. This enforcement ensures that code is properly structured and improves code maintainability.
3. Clarity of Intent:Indentation helps convey the programmer's intent more clearly. By visually aligning blocks of code, indentation makes it easier to see which statements belong to which control structures (such as loops or conditional statements) or function definitions.
6.Define a variable in Python. Provide examples of valid variable names.
Ans:-A variable is a symbolic name that refers to a value stored in memory. Variables allow programmers to store and manipulate data within a program.To define a variable in Python, you simply assign a value to a name using the assignment operator =. The syntax is: variable_name = value Here's an example of defining a variable named x and assigning it the value 10: x = 10
7.Explain the difference between a keyword and an identifier in Python.
Ans:-Keywords:Keywords are reserved words that have special meanings and functionalities in the Python language.These words are part of the Python language syntax and cannot be used as identifiers (variable names, function names, etc.).
Identifiers:Identifiers are names given to variables, functions, classes, modules, or other objects in Python.They are used to uniquely identify and reference these entities within the program.
8.List the basic data types available in Python.
Ans: Basic data types in Python include integers, floating-point numbers, strings, booleans, lists, tuples, dictionaries, and sets.
9.Ans: The syntax for an if statement in Python is:
       if condition:
    # code block to execute if condition is true

if: This keyword starts the if statement.
condition: This is an expression that evaluates to either True or False. If the condition is True, the code block following the if statement is executed.
A colon (:) marks the end of the if statement's condition and the beginning of the indented code block.
Indented code block: This block contains the code that is executed if the condition is true. It can consist of one or more statements. The indentation level determines which statements are part of this block.
10.Explain the purpose of the elif statement in Python.
Ans: The elseif statement in Python is used to check additional conditions after the initial if statement. It allows for the evaluation of multiple conditions sequentially. If the condition in the if statement is false, Python evaluates the condition in the elseif statement.
